Dr. Jeff Altig
http://nmt.edu/academics/chemistry/people/lfrolova.php
http://nmt.edu
liliya.frolova@nmt.edu?subject=
Research InterestsResearch in Dr. Frolova's laboratory divides between two main streams: development
                     of novel anticancer and antibacterial drugs on the basis of heterocyclic mimetics
                     of natural compounds, and study of chemical reactivity of graphene, graphite, and
                     transition metal nano particles with organic reagents for the development of novel
                     inorganic-organic hybrid materials for different purposes. The medicinal chemistry
                     research projects focus on drug-resistant bacteria and drug-resistant cancers including
                     apoptos-resistant, multidrug-resistant cancers and cancers with dismiss prognoses
                     (glioma, melanoma and others). Using rational drug design and library screening they
                     develop novel antibacterial and anticancer agents with the focus on drug-resistant
                     cultures. To achieve these goals, our group often develops novel synthetic pathways
                     of general significance. Also her team study new drug delivery options for our biologically
                     active compounds in collaboration with Dr. Michaelann Tartis (Department of Chemical
                     Engineering, New Mexico Tech). She collaborates closely with Dr. Rogelj in the Biology
                     Department of NM Tech as well as with other chemists and biologists across USA and
                     Europe. The other direction of their research, novel inorganic-organic hybrid materials,
                     grew up from the collaborative investigations (Dr. Nikolai Kalugin, Department of
                     Materials and Metallurgical Engineering in New Mexico Tech) of the possibility of
                     organic modification of graphene, graphite and transition metal particles in different
                     organic reactions. She made several successful organic modifications of graphene and
                     graphite surfaces. Also some interesting combinations of organic compounds with transition
                     metal particles were developed.
                  
