Konrad Krakowiak, Ph.D.
http://www.cive.uh.edu/faculty/krakowiak
http://www.cive.uh.edu
CSHub@MIT
Research Interests: Konrad J. Krakowiak, Ph.D. holds an Assistant Professor position, in the Civil and environmental Engineering Department (CEE) and he is a director of the SERC Civil and Environmental Engineering Facility at University of Houston (UH). He is also a Research Affiliate at Civil and Environmental Engineering Department, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Before joining UH, he was appointed as a Research Scientist, and Postdoctoral Associate, in the Concrete Sustainability Hub (CSHub@MIT) at MIT, an interdisciplinary team of researchers from several departments across MIT working on concrete science and engineering. While at MIT he was a leading experimentalist in the research project focused on mechanical performance and durability of cement-based matrices for hightemperature and high-pressure applications (X-CEM, $5M / 5 years).This includes such experimental methods as x-ray diffraction (XRD), electron microscopy (EM), electron probe microanalysis (EPMA) and instrumented indentation (IND). He has also actively collaborated on the synthesis of new cementbased matrices for applications in geothermal wells. He developed a novel characterization method of composite materials which allows direct correlation of nano-indentation mechanical properties with local phase composition. He contributed to the development of The Laboratory for Materials in Extreme Environments (H.hub) at MIT, where he was also its manager. Dr. Krakowiak obtained his Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from the University of Minho, Portugal, where he focused on the experimental micromechanics of construction materials. His current research activities include advanced experimental analysis and modeling of cement-based materials under thermo-chemo-mechanical loads including high temperature and pressure, cement geochemistry, development of novel reduced-aging and carbon neutral cement-based materials, and the effect nuclear radiation on the physical and mechanical properties of calcium-silicate-hydrates. Results of his research on chemo-mechanical analysis of cementitious materials, from the nano-scale to the macro-scale of engineering applications, has been published in various journals including Cement and Concrete Research, Nature Communications, and recently Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. He is an active member of the TRB committee on Basic Research and Emerging Technologies Related to Concrete - AFN10.

