Cortesi, Guy
https://www.albany.edu/ceas/guy-cortesi.php
https://www.albany.edu
gcortesi@albany.edu
Research Interests
I am interested in dramatically improving how organizations communicate and collaborate by leveraging the effective and secure use of technology.  Effective use of Information Technology in distance reporting and virtual organizational settings; the relation of communication channel and task on group composition, participation, and performance in virtual organizations.
Additional Information

37 years experience in information technology and network systems, cyber and information security, engineering, business, management, and teaching at both graduate and undergraduate levels. Currently responsible for development activities (syllabi creation and planning) for the University at Albany Computer Engineering program. Was Manager of Systems Support in Networking / Information Systems responsible for all workstation, PC, server and network systems, information security, and helpdesk needs for BPMI / Bechtel at 5 locations with 1200+ users. Was also employed by IBM, Fairchild/Schlumberger, and Texas Instruments as a Senior Design Engineer and manager.
Over 30+ years, taught 80+ classes in IS/MBA/Engineering programs at the University at Albany in the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the School of Business graduate programs, Union Graduate College in Engineering and Computer Science, Siena College in Computer Science, RPI in Computer and Information Science, and Hudson Valley Community College in Electrical Engineering Technology.   
Also taught Adult Education technology courses in the  North Colonie School District and was an Adjunct Instructor in Computer Science at East Tennessee State University. Also, co-founder and CEO / President of an Software / IT company (eSolve Solutions, Inc.) that provides online project collaboration solutions, network hosting, and technical services, with a focus on small-to-medium businesses in a wide range of industries.

Publications

Cortesi, G. J "The relation of communicaition channel and task on group composition, particpation, and performance in virtual organizations", Dissertation, University at Albany, Albany, NY, 2001.
Rangarajan, N., Cortesi, G. J., & Rohrbaugh, J. "Assessment of group process effectiveness in face-to-face, video and audio conferencing environments: A competing values approach", under first round review at Group and Organization Management.

