Rolf Halden
https://isearch.asu.edu/profile/1114611
https://isearch.asu.edu
Rolf.Halden@asu.edu
Research Interests
Halden's research explores the connection between anthropogenic activities, environmental quality and human health. His research relies heavily on the use of mass spectrometric tools (e.g., LC-MS/MS, MALDI-TOF) for applications in environmental proteomics, bioremediation and public health engineering. Ongoing projects focus on:
Urban Metabolism & the Human Health Observatory 
We are maintaining a U.S. national and are creating an international monitoring network for public health using wastewater treatment plants as public health observatories to identify healt risks and track the success of public health interventions.
Health Effects of Human Exposure to Toxic Pollutants 
We are studying the extent of human exposure to toxic pollutants and their associated health effects by examining biological specimens from adults and children.
Pharmaceuticals and Personal Care Products (PPCPs) in the Environment 
We are determining the fate of PPCPs in the environment, beginning with a characterization of sources such as wastewater treatment plants and ending with the characterization of the human body burden and biomarkers of exposure.
Bioremediation of Environmental Contaminants 
We are conducting research and also are supporting full-scale field deployments of bioremediation strategies for the removal of toxic pollutants from impacted soil and groundwater environments. This work includes the development of novel diagnostic devices for groundwater monitoring and remedial design.
Environmental Proteomics 
We are developing and applying proteomics techniques for the detection and characterization of microorganisms providing ecological services or posing public health threats. Instrumentation utilized includes liquid chromatography coupled to robotic spotters for matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (LC-MALDI) analysis, and electro spray ionization (ESI) tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Our laboratory features triple quadrupole and time-of-flight (TOF/TOF) mass analyzers.

